The Limits of the Possible


I

"He's not coming back out, I tell you!" stated a pimply-faced
man, shaking his head with finality "It's been an hour and a
quarter since he went in. He's done for."

The townsfolk, huddled together in the midst of the ruins
and rubble, watched the gaping black hole of the entrance
to the tunnel in silence. A fat man dressed in a yellow smock
shifted slightly from one foot to the other, cleared his throat
and pulled his wrinkled cap from his head.

"We have to wait a bit longer," he said as he wiped the
sweat from his sparse eyebrows.

"Why wait?" snorted pimply, "There in the caves lurks a
basilisk, or have you forgotten, burgrave? Anyone goes
down there, that's the end of them. Have you forgotten how
many have died down there already? What are we waiting
for?"

"This was the agreement, wasn't it?" murmured the fat man
uncertainly.

"An agreement you made with a living man, burgrave" said
the pimply-faced man's companion, a giant of a man in a
leather butcher's apron. "He is now dead, as surely as the
sun shines in the sky. It was plain from the beginning that
he was headed towards death, like all the others before
him. He didn't even take a mirror with him, only a sword -
and everybody knows you need a mirror in order to kill a
basilisk."



"At least we've saved some coin/' added pimples "there's no
one to pay for taking care of the basilisk. You might as well
go home. As far as the sorcerer's horse and baggage... well
it would be a shame if they went to waste."

"Yes," said the butcher, "It's a fine old mare and the
saddlebags are full. Let's take a look."

"What are you doing?"

"Shut up, burgrave. Don't get in the way unless you want a
punch in the face," threatened the pimpled man.

"A fine old mare," repeated the butcher.

"Leave the horse alone, my darling."

The butcher slowly turned around towards the stranger
who had suddenly appeared from behind a collapsed wall,
just at the back of the audience gathered around the tunnel
entrance. The stranger had thick curly brown hair and
wore a dark brown tunic under a puffy cotton coat and tall
riding boots. He had no weapons.

"Step away from the horse," he repeated with a menacing
smile. "What have we here? A horse and saddlebags
belonging to another and yet you eye them greedily and
paw through them. Is that honourable?"

Pimply slowly slipped a hand inside his overcoat and
glanced at the butcher. The butcher gave a nod and
signalled toward the crowd, out of which stepped two
strong, close cropped, youths. Both carried heavy clubs, like
those used to stun animals in the slaughterhouse.

"Who are you?" demanded the pimply-faced man, whose
hand remained hidden inside his overcoat, "to tell us what



is and isn't honourable?


"That's none of your business, my dear."

"You carry no weapons."

"That's true," the stranger's smile grew even more
poisonous, "I don't carry weapons."

"That's no good," pimply drew a long knife out from inside
his coat, "Too bad for you you're not armed."

The butcher also drew a blade; a long hunting knife. The
other two men approached, brandishing their clubs.

"I don't carry weapons," responded the stranger, not
budging, "but I'm always armed."

From behind the ruins, two young women stepped out
lightly and confidently. The crowd quickly parted, retreated
then thinned out.

The girls smiled, flashing their teeth, and blinked. They had
blue stripes tattooed from the corners of their eyes to the
tips of their ears. Lynx pelt clad their strong muscles from
thigh to hip and their bare arms curved above their mail
gauntlets. From behind the mail-clad shoulder of each rose
the hilt of a sabre.

Pimply got down on one knee and slowly, very slowly, placed
his knife on the ground.

From the hole in ruins came a rumble of stones, grinding,
and then from the darkness there emerged two hands
clutching the jagged edge of the wall. Following the hands,
a white head appeared, the hair powdered with brick dust.



a pale face and then, finally, shoulders, above which stood
the hilt of a sword. A murmur escaped the crowd.

The alabaster-haired man straightened and pulled a
strange shape from the hole; a small, odd looking body
covered in dust and blood. Holding the beast by its long
lizard-like tail, the man tossed it to the feet of the burgrave
without a word. The burgrave jumped backwards and
tripped on a fragment of wall, his eyes glued to a curved
bird-like beak, webbed crescent-shaped wings and claws
like sickles on its scaly feet. Its slashed throat, once
carmine, was now a dirty red-brown. Its sunken eyes were
glassy.

"Here's the basilisk," said the white-haired man as he
brushed the dust from his trousers, "As agreed, that'll be
200 lintars, good ones, not too worn. I will check them. I'm
warning you."

With shaking hands, the burgrave produced a large purse.
The white-haired man looked around at the townsfolk, his
gaze resting on the pimply-faced man, his discarded knife
at his feet. He also noticed the man in the brown tunic and
the young women in the lynx pelts.

"It's always the same," he said as he took the purse from
the burgrave's nervous hands, "I risk my neck for a few
measly coins and you, meanwhile, try to rob me. You people
never change, damn you to hell!"

"We haven't touched your bags," the butcher muttered,
backing away. The men armed with the clubs had long since
hidden themselves in the crowd. "Your things have not been
disturbed, sir"

"I'm glad to hear it," the white-haired man smiled. At the
sight of his smile, which bloomed on his pale face like an



open wound, the crowd began to disperse. "And that is why,
brother, you have nothing to worry about. Go in peace. But
go quickly."

Pimply, backing away, was about to run. The spots stood out
on his pallid face making him look even more hideous.

"Hey! Wait a minute!" called the man in the brown tunic,
"You've forgotten about something."

"What's that... sir?"

"You pulled a knife on me."

The tallest of the young women, who stood waiting with her
long legs apart, turned on her hip. Her sabre, drawn faster
than the eye could see, cut through the air. The head of the
pimply-faced man flew upwards, tracing an arc before
disappearing into the gaping hole. His body rolled stiff and
heavy, like a freshly felled tree, amongst the broken rubble.
The crowd cried out in unison. The second girl, her hand on
the hilt of her sabre, turned agilely, covering her back. It
was unnecessary - the crowd rushed and stumbled through
the ruins towards the town as fast as their legs could carry
them. At the head of the crowd, leaping impressively, was
the burgrave - slightly ahead of the butcher.

"A beautiful strike," commented the white-haired man
coldly as he shielded his eyes from the sun with a black-
gloved hand. "A beautiful strike from a Zerricanian sabre. I
humbly bow before the skill and beauty of free warrior
women. I am Geralt of Rivia."

"And I..." the unknown man indicated to a faded coat of
arms emblazoned on his brown tunic representing three
black birds aligned on a field of gold, "I am Borch, also
called Three Jackdaws. And these are my bodyguards Tea



and Vea. At least that's what I call them because their true
names are a tongue twister. They are both, as you so finely
guessed, Zerricanian."

"Thanks to them, or so it would seem, I still have my horse
and belongings. My thanks to you, warriors, and also to you,
noble lord."

"Three Jackdaws. And I'm no gentleman. Is there anything
keeping you in this region, Geralt of Rivia?"

"Nothing at all."

"Perfect. In that case, I have a proposition. Not far from
here, at the crossroads on the road to the river-port, is an
inn called The Pensive Dragon. The food is unequalled
throughout this whole region. I'm on my way there now
with the intention of dining and spending the night. It
would be an honour if you would accompany me."

"Borch," replied Geralt, white head turning away from his
horse, looking into the bright eyes of the stranger, "I'd like
you to know so that there be no misunderstanding between
us. I'm a Witcher."

"I thought as much. And you said that as if you were saying,
'I'm a leper.'"

"There are some," Geralt replied calmly, "that would prefer
the company of a leper to that of a witcher."

"And there are others," replied Three Jackdaws with a
smile, "who would prefer the company of sheep to that of
young ladies. In the end, all I can do is pity them. I stand by
my proposal."



Geralt took off a glove and shook the stranger's
outstretched hand.


"I accept. It's a pleasure to meet you."

"Let's be off then. I'm starving."
